Blockchain - Improve First Workout (#2100)
enkidevs/curriculum: blockchain/fundamentals/intro-blockchain/blockchain-history.md

---
author: mihaiberq

type: normal

category: must-know

aspects:
  - introduction

---

# Blockchain History

---
## Content
           	

> Theoretical blockchains go back to the early 90's, when multiple different projects were aiming to create fully digitized, decentralized and securitized payment systems[1]. Most of them never had the chance to see the light of day, and those which did were unsuccessful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Theoretical blockchains go back to the early 90's, when multiple different projects were aiming to create fully digitized, decentralized and securitized payment systems[1]. 

Most of them never had the chance to see the light of day, and those which did were unsuccessful.
```

> However, in January 2009, the first public blockchain was released - the Bitcoin blockchain. It was created by a person or group of people named Satoshi Nakamoto. More to come on this later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, in January 2009, the first public blockchain was released - the Bitcoin blockchain. 

It was created by a person or group of people named Satoshi Nakamoto. More to come on this later.
```

> What is important to point out is that, although, limited in functionality, Bitcoin worked as a proof-of-concept for more complex blockchains. The peer-to-peer payment system pioneered by Bitcoin allowed forward thinkers to extend the concept to incorporate applications like crowdfunding, domain registration, prediction markets, voting, and so on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is important to point out is that, although, limited in functionality, Bitcoin worked as a proof-of-concept for more complex blockchains. 

The peer-to-peer payment system pioneered by Bitcoin allowed forward thinkers to extend the concept to incorporate applications like crowdfunding, domain registration, prediction markets, voting, and so on.
```

---
## Footnotes

[1: Projects old as time]

> Nick Szabo's `bit gold` is the one most similar to Satoshi Nakamoto's Bitcoin, but just in theory. It had never come to see the light of day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nick Szabo's proposal for `bit gold` is most similar to Satoshi Nakamoto's Bitcoin, but it was never implemented.
```

> `DigiCash` was also a company trying to create a fully digital currency. Founded by David Chaum in 1990, it filed for bankruptcy in late 90's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DigiCash` was a company trying to create a fully digital currency with anonymous transactions but entered the market too early, before e-commerce was fully integrated within the Internet.
```
